Chatbot Response System                                                                 06/21/2024

Description:
This repository contains the source code for a Chatbot Response System developed by Usman Haider as part of a co-op placement in the Engineering Outreach Co-op Program. The chatbot is designed to interact with users by analyzing their input and generating contextually appropriate responses. It utilizes keyword matching and probability calculations to determine the best response from a predefined set of replies.


Features:
Keyword Matching: Identifies and matches user input with predefined keywords.
Response Probability Calculation: Calculates match probability to determine the most appropriate response.
Predefined Responses: Offers a set of predefined responses for common queries like greetings, farewells, and specific topics (e.g., food, advice).
Unknown Response Handling: Provides a random selection of responses when input doesn’t match known keywords.


Installation:
Clone the Repository:
bash
Copy code
git clone <https://github.com/Usman11611/BasicChatbot>
Navigate to the Project Directory:
bash
Copy code
cd chatbot-response-system
Set Up Python Environment:
Ensure Python is installed on your local machine.
Install any required dependencies (if applicable).

Setup:
Install Required Packages:
Standard modules like re and random should be available by default in Python.
If additional modules like textgenerator are used, install them with:
bash
Copy code
pip install <name-of-module>
Run the Application:
Start the chatbot by running the main script:
bash
Copy code
python chatbot.py

Usage:
Generating a Response:
Type a message when prompted by the chatbot, and it will generate a response based on keyword matching and probability calculations.
Predefined Replies:
The chatbot provides predefined replies for specific inputs, such as:
Greetings: "Hi there!", "Hello!"
Farewells: "Goodbye!", "Take care!"
Food-related queries: "As a robot, I don't have to eat, but thanks for asking!"
Advice requests: "I'd suggest searching the web for exactly what you mentioned!"
Handling Unknown Inputs:
If the chatbot doesn't recognize the input, it will provide a random response from a set of options like "Can you rephrase that?" or "What do you mean by that?"

Creator
Usman Haider - Developer and Designer